[IMP] Localization: Kenya (#9573)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/kenya.rst

:guilabel:`Initialize OSCU`. Your device is now authenticated.

.. note::
   Three :guilabel:`Server Mode` are available:

   - :guilabel:`Demo`: Uses mocked data and does not require an initialized OSCU. Serves demo
     purposes;
   - :guilabel:`Test`: Used to test the connection to eTIMS;
   - :guilabel:`Production`: Used for live databases ready to send data.

.. Important::
   If your device has **already been authenticated** (through another ERP, for example), enable
   :doc:`../../general/developer_mode` and go to the :guilabel:`eTIMS` tab. The field
   :guilabel:`Device Communication Key` is now available. Enter the key obtained through a previous
   authentication, :guilabel:`Save manually`, and click :guilabel:`Initialize OSCU`. It **may take
   time** before the button is available as the initialization was made elsewhere before.

eTIMS codes
-----------

Common standard codes are **automatically** fetched from the KRA eTIMS API servers every **two
days**. These can be fetched **manually** by enabling :doc:`../../general/developer_mode` and going
to :menuselection:`Settings --> Technical --> Automation: Scheduled Actions -->

> KE eTIMS: Fetch KRA standard codes`. Here, click :guilabel:`Run Manually` to fetch the codes.

Author: I cleared up the menu path a bit. There must have been a runbot issue, because the "standard codes" can be found in it (see attached).
![standard codes](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/104567387/87b3b643-1e0c-4453-8601-2bfdeef73599)

enter a **branch code** in the :guilabel:`eTIMS Branch Code` field.

.. note::
   By default, partners' branch codes are set to `OO`.

KRA Sequences
-------------

.. important:
   Odoo invoice sequences and KRA sequences are **different**.

In Odoo, invoice sequences depend on the **parent (main) company**. Parent companies can see the
invoices of branches, but branches **cannot** see the parent company's invoices or those of other
branches.

.. example::
   If you have a **main** company with **two branches**, the invoice sequence would be the
   following:

   - Creating an invoice on **branch 1**: INV/2024/00001
   - Creating an invoice on **branch 2**: INV/2024/00002
   - Crating on invoice on **parent company**: INV/2024/00003

The KRA, however, needs **independent** sequences per branch. Odoo, therefore, manages sequences
**individually** per branch.

.. example::
   This is how Odoo manages sequences to be compliant with the KRA regulations:

   - Creating an invoice on **branch 1**: INV/2024/00001
   - Creating an invoice on **branch 2**: INV/2024/00001
   - Creating an invoice on **parent company**: INV/2024/00001

> 

Author: Discussed together :)

Odoo checks to see if the elements above are defined when conducting business operations. If yes,
the product is automatically registered while sending the operation to the KRA. If not, the user is
alerted by a yellow banner at the top of the screen they are currently viewing, inviting them to
check the missing elements by clicking :guilabel:`View Product(s)`.

.. image:: kenya/product-registration.png
   :alt: Product registration template.

Stock movements
===============

All **stock movements** must be sent to the KRA. They do not require an invoice if they are
**internal operations** or **stock adjustments**. Therefore, Odoo automatically sends them if the
following conditions are met:

#. No partners are set for the move; or
#. The partner is your main company or a branch of the main company.

If the stock moves are **external** (e.g., to someone external the main company or its branches),
the stock moves are automatically sent *after* the invoice is sent to eTIMS.

.. note::
   - The stock move must be confirmed before sending the invoice to eTIMS;
   - The product(s) must be registered for the stock move to be sent to eTIMS. If not, a yellow

>      banner appears to prompt registration.

Author: This is correct, it's the same yellow banner prompting product registration. The product cannot be sent to eTIMS if it's not registered, and should the stock move concerning that product be an external one (i.e. the product is sold to someone outside of the main company or its branches). The stock move must first be registered and confirmed, only then can it be sent to eTIMS. If it were internal, it'd only need to be registered, not confirmed

Purchases
=========

Odoo automatically fetches new vendor bills from eTIMS every day. Users need to confirm the fetched

> vendor bills and the confirmation to the KRA. Every bill confirmation must be associated with a

Author: I meant *send* the confirmation

validated receipt. To do so, each bill must be linked to purchase order lines.

.. _kenya/purchases:

In the case of purchases **(not customs imports)**, the steps to link purchase order lines with
bills are the following:

#. The vendor bill is fetched from the KRA servers. The JSON file is available in the chatter of the
   vendor bill if needed;

> #. Odoo looks at the **PIN** (tax ID) of the partner;

Author: I'm guessing they use PIN instead of Tax ID because of local fiscal reasons which is not a tax ID but rather a PIN. In any case, i changed it but left pin between brackets

   - If it is unknown, a new partner is created;
   - If it is known and the branch ID is the same, Odoo uses the known partner.

#. The user must match the fetched vendor bill with an existing product. Each vendor bill must

>    contain a product to be confirmed and sent to eTIMS later on.

Author: I cleared up the flow a bit, it should be easier to understand. You can check this https://app.excalidraw.com/l/65VNwvy7c4X/1aCSVGqyEMV if you don't have any bills fetched from the KRA on your runbot (it has extra fields compared to regular Odoo bills)

#. Odoo looks at the existing purchase order lines matching the product and partner (if any). The
   user must select the correct related purchase order line from the
   :guilabel:`Purchase Order Line`: dropdown list. The received quantities on the purchase order
   must be on the same as those indicated on the vendor bill. If not, the vendor bill cannot be sent
   to eTIMS (indicated by a yellow banner).

   - If no existing purchase order lines match the fetched invoice lines, users can create a
     purchase order based on the unmatched lines. The resulting stock move *must* be validated. Once
     done, users can confirm and send the bill to eTIMS.

#. Make sure to set a method in the :guilabel:`eTIMS Payment Method` field of the bill to send the
   vendor bill to the KRA.
#. Once all steps are completed, the vendor bill can be sent by clicking :guilabel:`Send to eTIMS`.
   When the vendor bill has been confirmed on eTIMS, the **KRA invoice number** can be found under
   the :guilabel:`eTIMS Details`.

.. image:: kenya/purchase-order-lines.png

>    :alt: Bill registration steps.

Author: The goal is to show the screen of the whole process. It's hard to crop it further than what I did here, because I want to show both the Product field (for product matching) and the Purchase Order Line field (for purchase order matching). I also want to show the banner to reflect what the user would see in this case. Let me know what you think about this screenshot

Once the invoice has been sent and signed by the KRA, the following information can be found on
it:

- **KRA invoice number**;
- Mandatory KRA invoice fields, such as **SCU information**, **date**, **SCU ID**, **receipt
  number**, **item count**, **internal date**, and **receipt signature**;
- The **KRA tax table**;
- A unique **KRA QR code** for the signed invoice.

Imports
=======

Customs imports codes are **automatically** fetched from the KRA eTIMS API servers **every day**.
These codes can be **manually** fetched by enabling :doc:`../../general/developer_mode` and going to
:menuselection:`Settings --> Technical --> Automation: Scheduled Actions --> KE eTIMS: Receive
Customs Imports from the OSCU`. Here, click :guilabel:`Run Manually` to fetch the codes. Import
items can be found under :menuselection:`Accounting --> Vendors --> Customs Imports`.

The following steps are required to send and have **customs imports** signed by the KRA:

#. The customs import is fetched automatically from the KRA.
#. Users *must* match the imported item with an existing registered product (or create a product if
   no related product exists) in the :guilabel:`Product` field.

> #. Set a vendor in the :guilabel:`Partner` field.

Reviewer: I don't see this field in the Customs import list?

Author: If there are no imports in your runbot, you can follow the flow here: https://app.excalidraw.com/l/65VNwvy7c4X/1aCSVGqyEMV

#. Based on the partner, the user must match the imported item with its related purchase order
   (see :ref:`purchase steps <kenya/purchases>`). The stock must be correctly adjusted when then
   customs import is approved.
#. If no related purchase order exists, the user must create one. The :guilabel:`Product` and
   :guilabel:`Partner` must have been set before.
#. Finally, click :guilabel:`Match and Approve` or :guilabel:`Match and Reject`, depending on the
   situation of the goods.

.. note::

>    The JSON file received from the KRA is attached to the form view of the customs import.

Reviewer: Do you mean in the chatter? if so, I would say it that way as this is how you referred to this elsewhere in the doc

BOM
===

The KRA requires all BOMs to be sent to them. To send BOMs to eTIMS, the product and its components
*must* be :ref:`registered <kenya/product-registration>`. To access a product's BOM, click on the
product, and then click on the :guilabel:`Bill Of Materials`.

> Fill in the KRA's required fields, and then click :guilabel:`Send to eTIMS`. The successful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill in the KRA's required fields in the :guilabel:`KRA eTIMS details` section of the :guilabel:`Accounting` tab, and then click :guilabel:`Send to eTIMS`. The successful
```
option 2 would be to refer to where you talk about these fields in the doc (Product registration section), might be better actually. In any case i feel like we need to add something

> sending of the BOM is confirmed in the chatter, where the information sent about the BOM can also be
> found in a JSON file attached to the chatter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sending of the BOM is confirmed in the chatter, where you can also find the sent information in an attached JSON file.
```

Credit notes
============

The KRA does not accept credit notes with quantities or prices higher than the initial invoice. A

> KRA reason must be indicated when reversing the invoice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KRA reason must be indicated when reversing the invoice: In the customer credit note form, go to the :guilabel:`eTIMS Details` tab and select the :guilabel:`eTIMS Credit Note Reason`, then select the invoice number in the :guilabel:`Reversal of` field.
```
I'mkind of just guessing here, but in any case, I think it would be helpful to provide more info abotu this (i.e., whre you can specify the reason).
